Hello and welcome to another tutorial.
We're going to continue our discussion on the Hello World application in Java and then compiling it
with native image to Native Executable binary.
We saw how to just quickly write the Hello World Application macros and I'm just going to quickly go
through the output that you will see.
And again, as you see, this output in the terminal is colorful.
That's because I'm using fish, which is a friendly, intelligent or interactive shell and it allows
coloring.
So some terminals don't have the capability of coloring.
But some other terminals, if it's if they're intelligent enough, they can allow coloring.
So I recommend you use either a terminal that supports coloring like for example, the default terminal
in Linux supports coloring if you're using Mac OS in a in a starfish and then it allows very nice coloring,
you see very colorful text, right?
So the very first thing is starting a compilation process called VM Native Image.
And we saw that in the most recent version, which was 20 2.1.0, it actually shows more information
about which toolchain it's using to compile your application to native binary and then it tells you
the version information graph VM.
And then performing analysis information about classes.
It tells you which classes your application requires, how many classes your application requires to
actually be successfully launched.
And we know that most of these classes are from the JDC because chances are your application in our
case was just one simple class file, which was a hero award.
So if it says that your application requires like 3205, it means all of them come from the JDC, right?
How many use reflexion?
How many use janai?
We will touch upon these topics later on because we know that Jehovah, by its nature, it's a dynamically
it has a dynamic class loading feature or JVM is lazy loading, which means JVM only searches for a
type like a class if your application requires it, right.
And then reflection means at runtime you can reflect upon the features that the class has, which attributes
has, and these, as I mentioned, reflections or even joy access, native access.
These are not very friendly with aesthetic compilation.
Aesthetic compilation means you have a compiler compiler.
It analyzes your source code and compiles everything to native executable binary.
So reflection becomes some sort of tricky thing, right?
Because it's not a dynamic.
There is no runtime, right?
There is no JVM when you compile a statically compiled to a native executable, binary is just the operating
system telling the hardware what to do, right?
And then building universe performing aesthetic analysis of classes including JDK classes, parsing
methods, parsing just means it.
It's, it's tokenizing and understanding the methods in lining methods in lining is some sort of compiler
optimization, which means whenever instead of calling the runtime, which is the basic operating system
to go to this particular address, to invoke this functional method, it just copies the entire code
into where the method was invoked.
That's called in lining, right?
That's a very old like compiler optimization.
Usually if your methods are small or functions are small, enlightening works best.
If your methods are very long, then usually in enlightening doesn't really work that well.
Right.
So the trick here is that actually it's one of the best practices in Java or in any programming language.
When you're doing object oriented programming, try to keep your methods as small as possible.
Compiling methods.
Now the methods of the code inside the methods is compiled to native files or hardware instructions
or the assembly code.
And then creating image.
Image just means the actual native binary.
So what happens is that the compiler, the native image, compiles all the classes and then there is
a link here is invoked and the linker puts all the binaries, combines all the binaries together and
creates one image, one native executable.
Right.
And it also tells you the size of the file.
And we saw that when you compile your job application to native executable binary, the size is relatively
large.
It's like 11 megabytes or so.
And the reason is that there's a lot of stuff that has to be compiled from the JDK itself, and it tells
you, for example, the code area required 3.96 megabyte, almost four megabyte, which basically includes
or basically consists of 33% of the final size of the image file or the executable file is just the
code area.
About seven megabyte or 60% is for the image heap, that actual Java heap.
Right.
We said that native image actually kind of compiles a dense or a compact version of the gvm and we know
that JVM requires the heap area.
Right.
And then the 7% or 847 kilobyte for the other data, we know that JVM when you launch it right, it
has a heap and it has a metal space.
Metal space holding information about a fields, for example, of classes and other stuff like metal
information, all the stuff that can be used for reflection.
And then in total, the size of the image is 11.7 megabyte.
So top ten packages in code area, code area.
Again, this is basically where the classes are compiled to optimize native binary and they all come
from the JDK.
Not surprisingly, java util java lang java takes java util regex com oracle svg.
And so this is a substrate VMM.
So this is related only to Google VM like the typical Oracle JDK or open JDK, they don't have this
substrate VM Java util concurrent java math com oracle svn core reflect.
So again, this is part of the substrate VM which which is only particular to a specific to the VM Java
duty logging sign your local provider, etc..
And then top ten object types in image here one.
Only 75 megabyte of byte array for general heap data.
Right.
Obviously we hold the data into bytes.
789 kilobyte java lang string.
581 Java Lang Class.
484 Byte array for Java Lang string.
And etc. Java concurrent concurrent hash map dollar node node is an inner class.
We know that the name of the inner classes is outer class in a class.
Java lang is string l caroli and then a lot of stuff.
Right.
And then it tells you it took basically 0.9 seconds to do the entire things.
And then product artifacts is hello world which is executable and it tells it also gives you a build
artifact which the text takes the file which tells you what kind of artifact was generated.
We said that the main use case of the native image to create executable files right to compile java
application to executable file, but that's not necessary.
You can also compile your job application to a static library or dynamic library and we will see it
in the future lectures.
And again it finally says finish generating hello world in 27 seconds and then because we compiled in
our current working directory and then the native image was put in the executing the executable file
was put in the current working directory we just say dot forward slash hello world and we said that
in Windows operating system you don't need to use dart forward or backward slash because in Windows
the current working directory is automatically added to the path environment variables.
So you just say hello world on Mac OS and Linux you have to use DOT because the current working directory
is not searchable.
It's not by default added to the path environment variable.
Now we can actually do this.
So let's go back to our eclipse.
So we had this, my app, let's say, and then let's open a terminal here.
So if I say my underscore app, it's not going to work because the current working directory is not
by default added to the path environment variable.
What this means is that whenever we type a name my app and then hit a space, the terminal and the operating
system, they assume that this is an executable application.
And if you don't specify a relative path or an absolute path, then the terminal and or operating system,
they search into the directories that are on the path environment variable.
Right.
And we know that the current working directory is not added to the path environment variable by default.
That's why we give a relative path or an absolute path.
Right.
You can drag and drop these and this is the full absolute path to this executable file and then we do
it right.
So again, the reason in macOS and Linux we use dot my app because we are giving a relative path.
Otherwise the terminal cannot find it.
But if I open up a terminal at my home directory and then open up the bash RC.
Uh.
Let's see.
So what I'm going to do actually in the past environment variable, right, what I'm going to do, I'm
actually going so here I'm adding the Java JDK being directory.
Let's also add the current working directory.
So we want to tell the terminal that hey, the current working directory is always added to the path
environment.
Well, I mean that's not what I recommend.
I recommend you don't do that, but that's something that you can always do.
Right?
And then we go back to our terminal, maybe let's close it and then open it, or you can source the
bash RC again.
But here I'm just going to open it and close it again.
So, so if we echo our path environment variable and now you see the dot, which means the current working
directory is added, right?
So now if I say my underscore app, now you see the fish makes it blue, which means this is found,
right.
I don't need to say forward slash my app.
It is still works fine.
The fish shell makes it blue, which means this is valid.
But I don't need to do that because the current working directly.
I instructed the terminal to always add the current working directory to the path environment variable.
So again in Windows, this happens by default in macros and Linux.
This doesn't happen by default, but you can always do it.
So I'm going to comment this out because that's not one of the best practices.
It's best to avoid this kind of it's best to avoid adding the current working directory to the path
environment variable.
I mean in general, whenever you launch a application, you want to always know which directory you're
launching it from, right where the application is.
Now for some applications like Java, Java, see, obviously it's easier to just type the name instead
of give the full path.
That's why we add this to the being directory of the JDK to the path environment variable.
But again, the best practice is to define the Java home, right?
And then add the Bing.
So now this is very explicit that I'm running the JDK from whatever the Java home is defined.
And later on if you want to switch to another JDK instead of changing the path environment variable,
you just change the Java home environment variable, which is easier, right?
So and then for example, if I want to quickly run the Java from the VM JDK, I just say Google Home,
right?
And then Bean and then Java hyphen hyphen version.
So it's best to be more explicit and then define this kind of environment variables so that they can
always quickly use them.
All right.
Now, what we want to discuss now is the Linux again, Linux and Mac OS, very similar syntax in terms
of how to invoke the native image, how to how to basically compile your job application.
One thing that is the reason I'm separating the Mac OS and Linux is that now when in Mac OS, when you
install the Xcode app, all the required dependencies for the native image are installed.
The order you don't need to do anything else, but in Linux you kind of need to install a little bit
of more dependencies and native image depends on these static library libs.
So you want to.
So the first time using native image I want to may fail due to the missing library.
So here's an example.
I installed ubuntu, i installed a native image.
I created this hello world.
Very simple java application.
I use the java compiler to compile it to a class file and then I use the native image tool with the
Google VM to compile the class file to the native executable.
As you can see, the first time I ran it, it was successful until creating image and it gave me a fatal
error.
Java Erlang Runtime Exception.
There was an error linking the native image linker command exited with one and so the compilation was
successful.
Linking failed and the reason linking failed because linker link not only combines your application
the bindings, but it also tries to grab all the dependencies.
And one of the dependencies of the native image on Linux is the libs, right?
So you have to and you see based on the linker command output, possible reasons for this include it
appears as though libs dot a is missing please installing and the way you install it on linux you say
sudo apt.
This is the application manager install z lib one g.
So this is dynamic libraries for runtime.
So but we are doing compilation which is this is a development time.
So you have to use the also install the sudo apt install zlib one g hyphen dev.
So if you just install zlib one g, this is for the runtime only dynamically base to if an app.
I guess it requires this library at runtime.
Right?
Then this installation is enough.
But we need to zlib for the development time when we want to actually grab the code from the dynamic
library.
That's why you also need to install the dev version, right?
Sudo apt install zlib one g hyphen dev a static library for compile time and then linking happens after
the compilation is finished.
Right.
So the compiler here was successful.
But once we are creating image, which means we are combining all the binaries to create a native executable
file, the linker failed.
All right.
But once you basically install this dependency, rerun your application and it's going to be successful.
So let's head to our Ubuntu and then I am going to create a new directory.
Let's call this test on my desktop.
Let's open this up.
Let's see if we can open in terminal.
All right.
So I've also installed fish on top of my shell command in Linux.
So again, my recommendation is to install the fish, which is very nice.
So we're going to touch hello, world Java is going to create an empty file and then we're going to
open it with the text editor.
And then, let's say a public class.
Hello world.
And then.
And then we're going to say public static void main string args.
Right.
And then system that out that print line.
Hello.
World from Java in Linux Ubuntu and then exclamation mark and then close the brackets or close the double
code brackets and then semicolon.
All right, so this is all we need.
And then I'm going to say that Google Home being and then Java C hyphen C P here.
Right.
We only have one class and then.
Hello, Java.
So actually, we should have saved these first.
Oh, yeah.
It failed because we didn't say we.
So now again, we have a typo.
A string, so save again.
Okay, let's pull up the directory, let's clear this one and then run this.
So I'm compiling with the graph LLVM Java C and let's check to see which version we're using.
Hyphen hyphen version.
So 17.3, let's see what native image we're using.
Okay.
Actually, let's see what Java, Java and we're using Java hyphen, hyphen version.
So it's 2020 2.1.0.
This is the most recent version of The Beam as of the time of recording this tutorial.
Now we have the class file.
Now, obviously, the very first thing that we should always do.
Run our Java application using the Java, using the Java command to make sure everything works fine.
Now it works fine.
Obviously, the last thing is to go ahead and compile our Java application to native executable binary
hyphen CPP here and then helloworld.
We don't specify the date class and then the name of the output.
My app.
All right.
So it's going to take a little bit of time because I'm running on a virtual machine.
So grow generating my app executable and it also tells you if you click on this this terminal is very
intelligent it takes you to the opens, the Firefox and then it takes you to these websites to give
you more information about what does it mean that this application executable this this global VM native
image takes you to, for example, the native image home directory for the documentation virgin info
girl VM 20 2.1.0 as C compiler DCC.
This is a Linux compiler, this is the default toolchain and garbage collector serial GC Right.
So when our application is compiled, there is a serial GC that does the memory management for our executable
binary.
Right.
Remember, even when you write a C++ application, you have to do the manual.
Your application is responsible for memory management, right?
Operating system is not operating system only manages the stack memory.
It doesn't care about managing the heap memory or anything that is not allocated on the stack.
So code area, everything succeeded.
They set up my app and then build artifact.
Let's.
Let's wait a little bit.
Okay.
Now we have the my app here, my app build artifact and then what we're going to do, let's kill it
up and then dot forward slash my app and hello world from Java in Linux Ubuntu let's go to the test
come back up here.
It's about 12 point megabyte, so it's a pretty large site life size compared to your class file, which
was only 400 bytes, not even one kilobyte, half a kilobyte versus 12.5 megabyte.
But by today's standards, 12.5 megabyte is pretty much nothing.
So if we open this text file, it just tells you what kind of artifact we generated, which is.
Let's see.
So executable.
And what was the name of the artifact?
My app.
All right, now I want to show you.
So even if we don't specify this hyphen CP, it still works fine because we are in the current working
directory.
Right?
So again, the class path here has the same meaning as the Java class path that we always use.
All right.
So back to PowerPoint.
Let's look at again.
This is the output of the graph in Linux.
I'm running in the fish terminal, which is a very colorful terminal, a starting compilation process
called VMware Zen Information about classes very similar in macOS Linux, and you will see that later
in Windows.
The output is more or less the same.
Performing a static analysis which classes packages require the most static analysis and compilation.
The path to the generated native image executable binary and eventually we say that dot forward slash
the name of the executable.
Now if you don't specify the name of your executable, it's going to be the name of your class and all
letters are lowercase.
In my example, I actually specified the name of the output file, which was my underscore app here.
I'm not specifying the name of the output file, so by default it's going to be in the name of the class,
all letters lowercase.
So I hope you enjoy this lecture and now have a better understanding of the native image.
Please stay tuned and I'll see the next one.